# RStudio-Application
The Max Word Limit of RStudio Application is 3000 Characters, so the full-length version of the essay is here.

As a third-year undergraduate and physiology researcher, pursuing a double major in Chemical Engineering and Economics, I have used R as my primary programming language. Since high school, when I first became interested in data analysis and statistical modelling, I have been applying a multitude of R packages to my daily computational work for the past five years. I am experienced in terms of applying R to various fields of study, including but not limited to statistical analysis, linear algebra (Pracma), analytical chemistry, molecular simulation, machine learning (Keras), and web development (Shiny). Considering the versatility of R as a programming language, it has the potential for near-universal application.   

Relative to R’s computational potential, I feel my mastery of the machine learning package in R, Keras, could be considered as one of my greatest feats in using the language. During the summer of 2018, I was selected to be a research intern at the University of Tokyo, Japan. Working in a microscopic imaging lab, I was asked to construct a specific algorithm to enhance the resolution of cellular images. With a minimal background in machine learning, I began with the Mnist dataset and other fundamentals of machine learning, including gradient descent, MSE, and Adam. After a short duration of learning, I was able to successfully import my data and tweak my model. For the next 2 to 3 weeks, I constructed a cell-image database used for training, and finally was able to produce images with higher resolution from my model. Next, I modified the loss function. The default loss function, Mean Squared Error (MSE) was applicable but lacking precision. Most importantly, the judgement of the loss function could be deviated by extreme local discrepancies. As a result, although the returned pictures had larger pixel counts, they tended to be blurry compared to the original pictures, due to the penchant for MSE to “average” things to reach the local minimum. While tweaking the loss function, my first thought was to conduct a more rounds of convolution on the image before MSE was calculated. This idea worked and made the image slightly sharper. However, what further sharpened the image was the change from utilizing Mean Squared Error to utilizing Mean Absolute Error. Ultimately, the completed algorithm was capable of transferring images from low resolution to images with observable resolution increase.

After figuring out the ins-and-outs of machine learning and convolutional neural network using R and Keras, I was content with myself that I was capable of not only understanding the statistical and mathematical concepts, but also able to apply these concepts in the field. As a concept, machine learning is much simpler than most would believe. Consider the following analogy of picklocking a lock: if the conventional statistical modelling algorithms are traditional and primitive iron picks, which can be bent and inserted into the lock in a particular way to accommodate the keyhole; machine learning models are universal keys able to accommodate a much wider range and the most intricate of locks. 

Although I was able to understand and use machine learning through R to successfully complete my project with satisfactory results, I realize that there is still much for me to learn. With the infinite capabilities of Keras in R and my curiosity to learn, I am dedicated and excited to advance my understanding of machine learning through R.

Relative to R’s web development potential, I am proficient in using Shiny as my primary web development framework. The first time I utilized Shiny web development was when I wanted to create a web application on Chinese poetry. I programmed a poetry-composing bot, RandomPoet and a Shiny web app Keyword_poet that could either lookup or write Chinese poetry. 

What was even more empowering when using Shiny web development was when I decided to build my own start-up company, EweDee. As an online information sharing platform for share rides and logistics transportation, EweDee demanded a dynamic yet safe web framework. Shiny, as a framework that has seamless controller integration, matched my expectations. Although I had already been aware of Shiny’s potential as a web designing framework, I did not realize its capabilities until beginning development on EweDee. As far as I was concerned, one of the most crucial principles of Shiny web development is UI generation. Similar to the render method in React.js, Shiny can generate any UI from backend to frontend. While a straightforward process, this concept can minimize UI reiteration and redundancy to increase render speed. Most importantly, as a majority of the information will be stored at the backend, UI generation will also make Shiny apps more secure when handling sensitive information. Additionally, with seamless integration with R codes, complex logics can be applied, and numerous libraries can be called.

As the central technician of our development team, I have increasingly been able to understand Shiny and its nuances, applying these concepts in my work. 

Considering my deep admiration for R programming as a computer language, and my ability to apply and understand R in a variety of applications, working for RStudio would be a unique and extraordinary opportunity. I am willing to bring my enthusiasm, desire to learn and ambient experience to this community. 
